#Setting up the Workspace for OpenAppEngine.

= Prerequisites =

*. Download SpringSource Tool Suite - (URL : [http://www.springsource.com/landing/best-development-tool-enterprise-java?src=sts_adwords_lead] )

*. Install Maven 3 and after installation make sure that the M2_HOME environment variable is set in the Envirobment Variables, if not set the same.

*. Download Tomcat 7 (default Runtime Environment) for OpenAppEngine.

= Steps =

* Check out the OpenAppEngine projects from Eclipse
  # File -> New.
  # In the Wizard enter "SVN" in the search input box.
  # Select Checkout projects from SVN and click *Next*.
  # Create a New Repository Location with URL - https://openappengine.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
  # Complete the wizard and all the projects would be checked out into your workspace. 
  # All projects *except* for openappengine-webapp is a Maven Project.
  # Go to the tool bar and click on debug configurations.
  # Click on maven build.
  # Create a New Maven Build - Launch Configuration from the top and name it "Full Build"
  # In the window, enter the location of your base directory as - ${workspace_loc:/openappengine-parent} . This can be done by clicking on *Browse Workspace* and then select the project *openappengine-parent*.
  # In the goals enter *clean install eclipse:clean eclipse:eclipse* 
(if running from CMD enter mvn clean install eclipse:clean eclipse:eclipse -DskipTests=true -Declipse.workspace=_*<Workspace_Location>*_)
  # Make sure that the 'Skip Tests','Update Snapshots','Resolve Workspace Artifacts' check boxes are checked.
  # Click on Add below to add a parameter.
  # Enter name as eclipse.workspace and value as *${workspace_loc}*
  # Note that ${workspace_loc} is a variable internal to Eclipse IDE.
  # Click on Apply and then click on Debug.
  # All the projects will be built, now refresh the workspace.
  # Right click on the project *openappengine-webiface*, and click on properties.
  # In the left split click on *Deployment Assembly*, make sure that all the project dependencies like openappengine-utility are refered from Eclipse Projects and not from the location such as *M2_REPO/something....*
  # Create a new Tomcat 7 server instance and debug the openappengine-webiface on this. 